HOF5 Commissioning
==================

Connect to the network port on the PLC at 192.168.1.2.

Using the Texmate Development System, compile hof5.bas and open the
port to the PLC.


To confirm communication:
-------------------------
 - add User/UserVariables/TT01 to the watch window
 - turn the watch on
 - check that the value for TT01 from the PLC matches the value on the
   LED screen.


To modify the state of a valve:
-------------------------------
 - ensure that the plant is in the stopped state (fd100StepNumber == 0)
 - the cmd variable (for example, IV01cmd) sets the valve to one of three
   states:
     0 -> None (This causes no change in state.)
     1 -> Auto
     2 -> Manual Off
     3 -> Manual On
 - add the cmd variable to the watch window (find the variable under
   User/UserVariables)
 - turn the watch on
 - double click on the variable in the watch window
 - type the new value and press enter
 
Note that the valves require air pressure to function, and the system
DOES NOT check that there is sufficient, or even any, air pressure.
Further, note that the valve may already be in the desired state.  To
check that it is working change the state from off to on and then to
auto.  If everything is working correctly, this should change the
valve position and then return it back again to its original position.


Check list of valves:
---------------------

Confirmation that a valve is working can be obtained by changing its
cmd variable to 3, then to 2, then to 1.  If the valve is working, it
will change state either two or three times, depending on its default
state.

The following valves exist, and should be confirmed as working for
commissioning:

When the actuators are On (Mode 3), air pressure is applied, which
partially closes these valves.  The amount they close depends on the
air pressure which is controlled by the manual valves attached to the
side of the air cabinet; the higher the air pressure the more the
valve closes.
V01 - Flow constricting valve for first membrane or stainless steel membrane
V02 - Flow constricting valve for second membrane
V03 - Flow constricting valve for third membrane


When their actuators are Off (Mode 2), these valves are closed:
V05 - Backflush isolation valve for third membrane
V06 - Backflush isolation valve for second membrane
V07 - Backflush isolation valve for first membrane


When their actuators are Off (Mode 2), these valves are open:
V08 - Permeate isolation valve for third membrane
V09 - Permeate isolation valve for first membrane
V10 - Permeate isolation valve for second membrane

V17 - Isolates permeate return to feedtank - Mode 2, valve closed

Valves V61 and V62 are controlled from the same air isolation valve.
Thus when one is open then other is mechanically closed.  The only
time they can both be in the same state (closed) is when there isn't
any air pressure.
V61 - Retentate out - Mode 3, air off, valve closed
V62 - Isolates retentate circulation - Mode 2, air off, valve closed

V63 - Isolates feedtank supply - Mode 2, air off, valve closed



Level Transmitters:
-------------------

There are two tanks on HOF5, the feedtank (or retentate tank) and the
permeate tank.  Both tanks have level transmitters.

The following was valid as at 2017-06-20.

LT01 gives the level of the permeate tank.  It measures 0% for anything
lower than the level of the sensor, which is of the order of 10L.  At
22%, liquid is 240mm up the side of the 970mm tank (excluding the cone
bottom).

LT02 gives the level of the feedtank.  It measures 0% for anything
lower than the level of the sensor, which is of the order of 50L.  At
50%, liquid is 500mm up the side of the 900mm tank (excluding the cone
bottom).






Pumps:
------

Pump 1 (PP01) circulates the retentate past the filters.

Pump 2 (PP02) pumps the permeate, which is also used to backflush the
membranes.

To run a pump, there is both a run signal and a run speed.  The signal
variable ends in 'cmd' (for example, 'PP01cmd') and the speed variable
ends with an 'S' (for example, 'PP01S').

The speed variable is a percentage multiplied by 100.  So to set the
speed to 50%, set the variable to 50x100 = 5000.  The VSDs will ramp
the pump speed slowly to ensure that the pumps are not shoked by a
request to go from say 0% to 100%, or visa versa.

For pump 1, the VSD ensure a safe minimum run speed for the pump, thus
setting the speed to 0% does not stop the pump, but rather runs it as
slowly as possible in a manner that can be maintained without over
heating the pumps.  This is not the case for pump 2.

To run and to stop the pump, use the command variable.  Set the
command variable to one of three states:
     0 -> None (This causes no change in state.)
     1 -> Auto
     2 -> Manual Off
     3 -> Manual On

Make sure there is liquid in the tank before starting the pump as the
pumps do not appreciate being run dry.





Flow meters:
------------

There are two flow meters, FT01 and FT02.  Their values can be
displayed on the LCD screen (pres the down arrow until the appropriate
page is shown).

FT01 measures the permeate flow into the permeate tank in L/h.

FT02 measures the retentate circulation flow in m3/h.  The value can
also be see on the screen local to the flow meter itself; a screw
needs to up undone and the cover flap lifted to reveal the screen.



Pressure transmitters:
----------------------

There are two pressure transmitters, PT01 and PT04.  Their values can
be displayed on the LCD screen.

PT01 measures the pressure in the retentate circulation flow after the
membranes.  PT04 measures the pressure before the membranes.

There is also a manual pressure guage on the backflush line between
V17 and V05.


Temperature transmitter:
------------------------

There is one temperature transmitter, TT01.  It measures the
temperature of the feedtank and thus the retentate circulation line.

When not stopped, there is a constant check on the temperature to
ensure the safety of the membrane.



Commissioning notes:
--------------------

2017-06-29:

Talked to Anthony from Define Instruments about the capture pin that
is used for FT01's signal.  He recommended observing
DigitalPins/CAPTURE_PIN in the TDS as this is a raw view of the
hardware.  When the capture pin was shorted to common, the value of
DigitalPins/CAPTURE_PIN did not change, therefore Anthony concluded it
was a hardware fault within the controller.  He said no setup or
configuration was necessary.  Thus the controller needs to be repaired
before FT01 can be made to work again.


2017-06-26:

To fix the air pressure being delivered to V03, the air pressure
regulator has been bypassed.  Now, the air pressure regulator for V02
supplies air for both V02 and V03.  The output of the original air
pressure regulator for V03 has been blocked off.  In the future, it
would be better to fix the air pressure regulator for V03 rather than
bypass it.


2017-06-20:

The air pressure control valve that supplies air to the actuator of
valve V03 appears to be delivering low pressure air.  When the control
valve is swapped out with the one for V02, then V03 functions
correctly.  The malfunctioning part is a Norgren 11-818-110 "Precision
pressure regulator".

IV08 doesn't function.  Air is being delivered correctly as swapping
the air sources with V10 and V08 does not have an affect on the
operation of V10--but V08 still doesn't work.

FT01 reads zero, even when there's obvious flow.  Tests were on water,
but with only one membrane.  So perhaps the maximum flow rates could
be three times greater.

Over-pressure faults do not exist.  The single membrane currently
installed has a maximum pressure drop (maximum differential pressure
feed side) of 2.1 bar.  Although we're only running at 1.3 bar, it's
not great that this isn't constantly checked.  In fact, other than
displaying th pressure, it appears the values aren't used at all.
